@c -*-texinfo-*-
@section Configuration files
The MyServer configuration is done using three different XML files:

@itemize
@item @file{myserver.xml}
It contains the main myserver configuration.  Almost all settings here
can be redefined locally for virtual hosts or directories.
@item @file{MIMEtypes.xml}
It contains the default MIME types configuration.  It can be redefined
for any virtual host.
@item @file{virtualhosts.xml}
This file defines the different virtual hosts used by MyServer.
Virtual host here is not used properly, as this file is used to define
sites on a protocol different than HTTP/HTTPS where there are not
virtual hosts, for example FTP.
@end itemize

These files can exist in different locations, they are looked in the
following order:
@enumerate
@item Current working directory.
@item Personal directory, ~/.myserver/.
@item Global scope inside /etc/myserver.
@end enumerate

It is possible to specify a different directory where looks for
configuration files by the @code{--cfgdir} argument to the myserver
process.  In case a path is specified, then the configuration files
are looked exclusively in this directory.

@subsection Alternative handlers
Plugins are allowed to install new handlers to read the configuration
from other sources.  It is done changing the value of the variables
@code{server.vhost_handler} and @code{server.server.mime_handler},
respectively to use a different handler for the virtual hosts and for
the MIME types.  If no value is specified then the value @value{xml}
is used.

@section Server administrator
CGI scripts can get the server administrator e-mail and show them to
the user (through the SERVER_ADMIN environment variable). 
It is defined trought the @code{server.admin} variable, that can be
set in the global configuration file or for virtual host.

@section Temporary files position
There can be need for the server to save temporary files as a form of
inter-process communication.
It is possible to configure the directory where temporary files are
stored trought the @code{server.temp_directory} variable inside the
main configuration file.
Operations on disk are much slower than read or write directly from
the primary memory.  To solve this problem under GNU/Linux you can
think about use virtual memory instead of a persistent storage device
to store files.

It can be done, by the root user, as:

@example
# mount -t tmpfs -o size=256m tmpfs /tmp/tmpfs
@end example

The previous command mount a portion of memory, 256M, on the
/tmp/tmpfs and it can be used as a normal file system.
At this point, @code{server.temp_directory} shall be set to
@file{/tmp/tmpfs} to benefit from it.
Files saved on the primary memory are not persistent between reboots,
introducing another level of security as temporary data will not be
saved on the server.

@section Connections timeout
Protocols like FTP or HTTP/1.1 support keep-alive connections, in
other words the connection is kept alive between requests to avoid a
different connection to the server on every request.
MyServer performances are not affected by the number of active
connections but if they are not controlled, they can reach the maximum
number of allowed connections without give the possibility to new
connections that really want to request a resource to be
estabilished.
Active connections are closed after a fixed amount of time has passed
without any activity.
The amount of time, before an inactive connection is closed, is
configured trought the @code{server.connection_timeout} value defined
in the global configuration file.  This value is specified in
seconds.
