@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c GNU MyServer
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2002-2010 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c
@c This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
@c it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
@c the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
@c (at your option) any later version.
@c
@c This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
@c but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
@c MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
@c GNU General Public License for more details.
@c
@c You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
@c along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

@section Directory Listing
When a resource mapped to a local directory is requested, MyServer
shows its content like an usual file manager does.


@subsection Default files
In the @file{myserver.xml} main configuration or in the
@file{virtualhosts.xml} file, it is possible to set a list of default
file names to use instead of the directory content.

Default file names are defined using a list called
@code{http.default_file} and they are checked in the specified order
until one is found.  If the file can't be found in the directory then
the directory content is listed.

@example
<DEFINE name="http.default_file">
        <DEFINE value="default.html"/>
        <DEFINE value="default.htm"/>
        <DEFINE value="index.html"/>
        <DEFINE value="index.htm"/>
</DEFINE>
@end example

The previous lines define the order of files that are checked by the
web server when a directory is requested.
For example, given the previous configuration and a request to the
@file{http://foo/bar/} resource, where @file{bar/} is mapped to a
local directory, the server will look for these files in order:

@example
http://foo/bar/default.htm
http://foo/bar/index.htm
http://foo/bar/default.html
http://foo/bar/index.html
@end example

If that resources don't exist then the content of @file{bar/} is
listed.

@subsection Directory listing columns
When the directory content is listed, by default MyServer shows the
file name, last modified time and file size.  This default bahaviour
can be changed redefining the @code{http.dir.format} value.

It can be redefined in the local security file, in the virtual host or
in the global server configuration.
Its value is a formatting string, columns are showed in the same order
that they are specified.

@itemize
@item %f
specifies the file name.
@item %t
specifies the file last modified time.
@item %s
specifies the file size.
@end itemize

For example, the @code{%f%s} value displays the file name followed
by its size, while @code{%f%t} displays the file name and its last
modified time.

@subsection Directory listing layout
You can change the layout of the directory browsing page. The line
below, in @file{myserver.xml}, points to the CSS file used to
configure the layout for the browsing directory pages:

@example
  <DEFINE name="http.dir.css" value="/sys/css/browsestyle.css" />
@end example

@subsection Ignore entries
It is possible to ignore some files to be listed from the final
output.  It is done using the @code{http.dir.ignore} regular
expression that can be specified at any level.

Pay attention, this directive does not change the file visibility, so
a direct request to the entries that are part of the mask will have
the same effect as if this directive is not specified.

In the following example, the file @file{hidden} is not included in
the directory listing.

@example
  <DEFINE name="http.dir.ignore" value="hidden" />
@end example
