@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c GNU MyServer
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2002-2010 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c
@c This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
@c it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
@c the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
@c (at your option) any later version.
@c
@c This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
@c but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
@c MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
@c GNU General Public License for more details.
@c
@c You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
@c along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

@section Overview of the log management features
The MyServer's log management system was designed to support logging
over different targets. At the moment, these targets are made out of
files, sockets and, of course, consoles. Each target, must be referred
through its @b{location string}. In addition, it is possible to provide
a list of filters (e.g. the Gzip filter) to improve the logging
capabilities.

@section Use of the log manager
This section will introduce you to the use of the log management
features.

@subsection Location strings
A location string can be provided as an URI; the basic schema is in
the form @code{protocol://resource}. @code{protocol} can be chosen
between
@enumerate
@item @code{console}
@item @code{file}
@item @code{socket}
@end enumerate
and @code{resource} can be either a valid filename or an hostname according
to its @code{protocol}. The @code{console} protocol, can take as its
@code{resource} argument, either @code{stdout} or @code{stderr}.

@subsubsection Location string examples
@enumerate
@item Send log messages to a host whose ip address is 192.168.1.18, on
port 12345 :
@example
socket://192.168.1.18:12345
@end example
@item Send log messages to the file /var/log/myserver/MyServerHTTP.log :
@example
file:///var/log/myserver/MyServerHTTP.log
@end example
Note the extra '/' needed to refer an absolute path.
@item Send log messages to the standard error
@example
console://stderr
@end example
@end enumerate

@subsection Setting the MyServer's main log
You can set the MyServer's main log location through the switch
@example
--loglocation=protocol://resource
@end example
where the @code{--loglocation} argument is a valid location string.

@subsection Setting the logging resources for virtual hosts
Each virtual host needs two main log targets, one for the access
messages and the other one for the error messages, whose entries in the
configuration file, are respectively @code{ACCESSLOG} and
@code{WARNINGLOG}. Each of these  targets, can in turn write its
messages over different streams. To tell MyServer about all that, you
can edit the @file{virtualhosts.xml} file, and apply the information
found in this section, to each @code{VHOST} entry of that file. As we
can see in the following example, the @code{ACCESSLOG} root entry for
the accesses log configuration, contains some @code{STREAM} nodes, and
each @code{STREAM} contains two attributes, the mandatory
@code{location} and the optional @code{cycle}. A @code{STREAM} node, can
also contain optional @code{FILTER} sub-nodes, one for each filter that
we want to add to the @code{STREAM}.
@example
<ACCESSLOG type="combined">
  <STREAM location="file://logs/MyServerHTTP.log" cycle="1048576">
    <FILTER>gzip</FILTER>
  </STREAM>
  <STREAM location="console://stderr"/>
</ACCESSLOG>
@end example
Above we have two streams attached to the @code{ACCESSLOG} entry. The
first one, is a file. This file will grow up to 1048576 bytes, over that
limit it will be cycled. Also, this target will take advantage of the
gzip compression, since it will write to the file through the gzip
filter. The second one is the standard error stream over the console.
The next example, shows instead the @code{WARNINGLOG} entry. In that
example, we still have two streams where warning messages will be
sent. The first one is a socket, while the second one is a file that
will grow with no limit over its size. No filters will be applied to
that stream. Note that if we don't specify the @code{cycle} attribute,
it is assumed to be zero by default, which means to never cycle the
@code{STREAM}.
@example
<WARNINGLOG>
  <STREAM location="socket://192.168.1.13:8080"/>
  <STREAM location="file://MyServerHTTP.err"/>
</WARNINGLOG>
@end example
If a wrong filter is specified, its relative @code{STREAM} will not
be added.

@subsection Console colors
It is possible to set color attributes for the text written over the
console. In this way, messages can look different according to the
logging level which they belong to.
For example, you may wish to write error messages with a red text over a
black background, info messages with a white text over a black
background and warning messages with a yellow text over a black
background. You can easily tell MyServer about that information by
editing the @file{myserver.xml} configuration file and adding the
following code:
@example
  <DEFINE name="log_color.info_fg" value="white">
  <DEFINE name="log_color.info_bg" value="black">

  <DEFINE name="log_color.warning_fg" value="yellow">
  <DEFINE name="log_color.warning_bg" value="black">

  <DEFINE name="log_color.error_fg" value="red">
  <DEFINE name="log_color.error_bg" value="black">
@end example
Allowed values for colors are @code{black}, @code{red}, @code{green},
@code{yellow}, @code{blue}, @code{magenta}, @code{cyan} and
@code{white}. The two common suffixes @code{fg} and @code{bg} represent
respectively the foreground attribute and the background one, while the
three prefixes, @code{info}, @code{warning} and @code{error} represent
kinds of logging messages managed by MyServer.
If the console colours information is missing or it is partially
provided, MyServer will use default values.
