@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c GNU MyServer
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2002-2010 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c
@c This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
@c it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
@c the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
@c (at your option) any later version.
@c
@c This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
@c but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
@c MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
@c GNU General Public License for more details.
@c
@c You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
@c along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
MIME types are used to specify the type of information a resource
transmitted to or from the server contains.
Some standard MIME types are already defined in the
@file{MIMEtypes.xml} file.
Using the same syntax you can define new MIME types or modify existing
ones.  For each MIME type it is possible to specify how the server
will handle the files and which actions take before it can be sent to
the client.

In this example two MIME types are defined:

@example
<MIME mime="text/html" handler="SEND" param="">
      <EXTENSION value="html"/>
      <FILTER value="gzip"/>
</MIME>

<MIME mime="text/html" handler="CGI" param="/usr/bin/perl" selfExecuted="NO">
      <EXTENSION value="pl"/>
      <DEFINE name="http.error.file.404" value="404.html"/>
</MIME>
@end example

The former defines to send any file with a @code{.html} extension as
it is, in case it is supported by the client then the file content is
compressed using the gzip.
The latter specifies that every file with a @code{pl} extension are
handled by the @file{/usr/bin/perl} CGI and the new process standard
output is redirected to the client.  In addition, it defines which
resource use when a 404 HTTP file not found error happens.

Every MIME type is made of:

@itemize

@item mime
the MIME attribute specifies the MIME name.

@item extension
the MIME type will be used by any file with this extension.  More
@code{extension} items can be specified for the same MIME type.

@item filter
this directive registers a filter to use on the MIME type.  It depends
from the protocol how it will be handled, a protocol may ignore this
directive.  For example HTTP will use a modifier filter only if it is
accepted by the client.

@item handler
specifies how the server will manage this file.  It is protocol
specific, for example, FTP doesn't support it.

@item param
specifies additional params for the handler.

@item selfExecuted
where it is supported, lanuch the accessed resource as a process or a
server.
For example, there is need to use selfExecuted on the CGI protocol if
the accessed resource can be used as a process.  Differently if it is
not specified, the resource mapped by the URI will be used as an
additional argument to @code{param}.
@end itemize

@code{<FILTER>} defines a filter for the MIME type.  The data will
pass through the filter before being sent to the user.  
In the example above, the data would be sent gzipped to the user.
It is possible to specify multiple filters for the same MIME type,
they will be applied in the specified order.

@code{<DEFINE>} It defines a new value for a variable, take a look
here @ref{Security files} for more details on the @code{<DEFINE>}
element.

The same MIME type can have several extensions, you will need to
specify a different @code{<EXTENSION>} element for each extension.

These are valid HTTP handlers:

@enumerate
@item SEND
Send the file statically as it is.  This command is used for files
extensions such as .html and .jpg that don't need any external
intervention from the web server.
@item CGI
Run the CGI script indicated in the handler.  It is used for file
extensions such as .php and .pl that need to be processed before
sending any data to the client.  Every request requires the execution
of a new process.
@item FASTCGI
Run the script using the FastCGI server specified in the handler.
Differently than CGI, a new process is not spawned on every request
but it is done opening a connection to the specified FastCGI server.
@item SCGI
Like FastCGI, it is designed as a replacement for the CGI protocol.
@item MSCGI
Run the MSCGI script. This library is only available for MyServer. It
is used to build fast and efficient CGIs that needs to access MyServer
internal data.  It is not portable, don't use unless you are going to
write something that can be used only for MyServer.
@item ISAPI
Run the ISAPI module.  It is available only under the Microsoft
Windows operating system thus it is not portable or can be used on a
Free operating system.
@item WINCGI
This protocol is obsoleted by ISAPI.  As CGI it needs a new process
for every request and it uses files to communicate with the web
server.  It is very inefficient.
@item PROXY
The HTTP request is forwarded to the HTTP server specified in the
@code{param}.  This is not a real proxy, there is not caching and
message is forwarded as it is without any change.
@end enumerate

It is possible to match the file name against a regular expression
instead of specifying only its extension.

It is done using the @code{PATH} directive in the following way:

@example
<?xml version ="1.0"?>
<MIME mime="text/html" handler="SEND" param="">
<PATH regex="/foo/bar/.*" />
</MIME>
@end example

The @code{PATH} regular expressions are checked before the file
extension, in the order they are specified in the configuration file.

@section Symbolic links
MyServer offers the feature to follow symlinks where they are
supported.
You can configure MyServer to follow symbolic links specifying this
line in the @file{myserver.xml} file.

@example
	<DEFINE name="symlinks.follow" value="YES" />
@end example

By default MyServer doesn't follow symbolic links.

@section Different MIME type handlers
It is possible to use different handlers to determine the file MIME
type.  Additional handlers can be supported by external plugins.

The definition of external handlers can be done per vhost or globally
in the main configuration file changing the value of the variable
@code{mime.handler}.

@example
	<DEFINE name="mime.handler" value="mime_magic" />
@end example
