@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c GNU MyServer
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2002-2010 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c
@c This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
@c it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
@c the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
@c (at your option) any later version.
@c
@c This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
@c but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
@c MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
@c GNU General Public License for more details.
@c
@c You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
@c along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
\input texinfo
@setfilename myserver

@settitle GNU MyServer Manual

@setchapternewpage odd

@copying
This is the manual for GNU MyServer.

Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with the
Invariant Sections being ``The GNU Manifesto,'' ``Distribution'' and
``GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE,'' with the Front-Cover texts being ``A GNU
Manual,'' and with the Back-Cover Texts as in (a) below.  A copy of the
license is included in the section entitled ``GNU Free Documentation
License.''

(a) The FSF's Back-Cover Text is: ``You have the freedom to copy and
modify this GNU manual.  Buying copies from the FSF supports it in
developing GNU and promoting software freedom.''
@end quotation
@end copying

@dircategory MyServer
@direntry
* MyServer: (myserver).	GNU MyServer.
@end direntry

@tex
\global\hbadness=100000
@end tex

@titlepage
@sp 10
@center @titlefont{GNU MyServer}

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@end titlepage

@iftex
@summarycontents
@contents
@end iftex

@ifnottex
@node Top, Basic configuration, (dir), (dir)
@top GNU MyServer
GNU MyServer is a powerful web server designed, to be easily executed
on a personal computer by the average computer user.
It is based on multi-threaded architecture, which makes it extremely
scalable and usable in large scale sites, as well as in small
networks.  It has built-in supports for the HTTP, HTTPS and FTP
protocols.
Support for dynamic pages is made available trough CGI, ISAPI, WinCGI,
SCGI and FastCGI protocols.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Basic configuration:: Basic server configuration.
* Virtual hosts:: Virtual hosts configuration.
* MIME types:: MIME types configuration.
* Process security:: Process security.
* Security files:: Describe how to use security files.
* WebDAV:: Information on using WebDAV commands.
* SSL certificates:: Show how to use SSL certificates.
* Error pages:: How configure error pages.
* Directory listing:: Show how directories are handled.
* Log management:: Describe how to use the log management features.
* Concept index:: An item for each concept.
* GNU Free Documentation License:: The license for this documentation.
@end menu

@node Basic configuration, Virtual hosts, Top, Top
@chapter Basic configuration
@cindex Basic configuration
@include basic_configuration.texi

@node Virtual hosts, MIME types, Basic configuration, Top
@chapter Virtual hosts
@cindex Virtual hosts
@include virtual_hosts.texi

@node MIME types, Process security, Virtual hosts, Top
@chapter MIME types
@cindex MIME types
@include mime_types.texi

@node Process security, Security files, MIME types, Top
@chapter Process security
@cindex Process security
@include process_security.texi

@node Security files, WebDAV, Process security, Top
@chapter Process security
@cindex Process security
@include security.texi

@node WebDAV, Error pages, Security files, Top
@chapter WebDAV
@cindex WebDAV
@include webdav.texi

@node Error pages, Directory listing, WebDAV, Top
@chapter Error pages
@cindex Error pages
@include error_pages.texi

@node Directory listing, SSL certificates, Error pages, Top
@chapter Directory listing
@cindex Directory listing
@include directory_listing.texi

@node SSL certificates, Log management, Directory listing, Top
@chapter SSL certificates
@cindex SSL certificates
@include ssl_certificates.texi

@node Log management, Concept index, SSL certificates, Top
@chapter Log management
@cindex Log Management
@include log_management.texi

@node Concept index, GNU Free Documentation License, Log management, Top
@unnumbered Concept index
@printindex cp

@node GNU Free Documentation License, , Concept index, Top
@appendix GNU Free Documentation License
@include doclicense.texi

@bye
