@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c GNU MyServer
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2002-2010 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c
@c This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
@c it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
@c the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
@c (at your option) any later version.
@c
@c This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
@c but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
@c MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
@c GNU General Public License for more details.
@c
@c You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
@c along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
Under POSIX it is possible to change the MyServer process user identifier
and group identifier after it has bound the necessary ports (only the
root user can bind ports < 1024).

To specify a different process user id (PID), you must specify it in
the @file{myserver.xml} file as:

@example
<DEFINE name="server.uid" value="UID" />
@end example

Differently, to change the process group id (GID), the configuration
line to use is:

@example
<DEFINE name="server.gid" value="GID" />
@end example

When one of these features is used, MyServer will not use the
auto-reboot because it will not be possible to get back old
permissions.

@section CGI processes.
It is possible to run CGI processes using a different uid/gid.  It can
be done defining the ``cgi.uid'' and ``cgi.gid'' values in a
configuration file.  It can be specified at any configuration level.

These directives can be used in a security file to force the execution
of the new process with both uid and gid to 1000.
@example
<DEFINE name="cgi.uid" value="1000" />
<DEFINE name="cgi.gid" value="1000" />
@end example

It is also possible to specify a new root directory location using the
cgi.chroot attribute:

@example
<DEFINE name="cgi.chroot" value="/some/where" />
@end example

@section Fork Server
In a POSIX environment the @code{fork} syscall is used to execute new
processes.  It clones the caller process keeping any open file or
connection in the child process too.  To avoid this problem a fork
server is present in MyServer.
The communication between the MyServer process and the
fork server is done trought a socket.  When MyServer wants to execute
a new process two connections are opened to the fork server, for
the stdin and stdout streams, and the fork server will fork itself and
execute the process using these connections as its I/O streams.

It is not configurable in any configuration file as the MyServer
process is forked to create it before any file or connection is
active.

It is enabled passing the @code{-f} switch to the myserver process.

If the MyServer main process is configured to change its uid/gid after
its initialization, it is the only way to spawn new processes with
uid/gid different than the MyServer process.

@section FastCGI/SCGI servers
By default, FastCGI and SCGI servers are lazily initialized by
MyServer on the first request to a resource that is handled trought
these protocols.  In this case MyServer will initialize it using a
random TCP port.
There may be cases where a different configuration is needed and it is
done using the @code{PROCESS_SERVER} directive inside the
@file{myserver.xml} file.

A @code{PROCESS_SERVER} entry makes it possible to access a specific
FastCGI/SCGI configuration inside MIME types by its name.

@example
<!-- Inside myserver.xml.  -->
<DEFINE name="server.process_servers">
  <DEFINE server="/opt/bin/fastcgi_server" domain="fastcgi"
          host="localhost" port="2010" local="yes" uid="1000"
          chroot="/chroot" gid="1000"/>
</DEFINE>
@end example

In the previous example the FastCGI server
@code{/opt/bin/fastcgi_server} is created.  The @code{domain} must be
"fastcgi" or "scgi", depending on the specific protocol to use.
@code{local} specifies if the server is handled by myserver or it is
already running; in the former case, myserver will simply access and
use it.
If the server is not local then the @code{server} is a simple label
that can be used by a MIME type trought @code{param} to access it.

It is possible to specify a different uid/gid for the local server
process and don't maintain the original myserver process privileges.
It can be done using the @code{uid} and @code{gid} elements.

Also, it is possible to use a different root directory, mapping the
@file{/} path to what is specied in the @code{chroot} attribute.
Any file lookup can't go upper what is specied in the chroot.  Pay
attention that any path specified in @code{server} must be relative to
the new chroot.

The following code, declare an already running FastCGI server and
registers it on the @code{fcgi} extension:

@example
<DEFINE name="process_servers.list">
  <DEFINE server="a_remote_server" domain="fastcgi" host="foo" port="2010"
          local="no"/>
</DEFINE>

<!-- Inside MIMEtypes.xml.  -->
<MIME mime="text/html" handler="RUNFASTCGI" param="a_remote_server">
      <EXTENSION value="fcgi"/>
</MIME>
@end example


@subsection FastCGI X-Sendfile directive
The X-Sendfile directive can be used by FastCGI servers to instruct
the web server to ignore any content but send the file specified in
the X-Sendfile header.  It is much faster to transfer static contents
and avoid an additional step from the FastCGI server to the web
server.

Since the FastCGI X-Sendfile can ask any file to be accessed
statically, this feature is not considered safe you must force it
manually, in can be done on a virtual hosts basis.
It is done trough the @code{fastcgi.sendfile.allow} variable, to
enable X-Sendfile set its value to @code{YES}.
