@c -*-texinfo-*-
It is possible to change almost any configuration for a single
directory or a single resource trough the @file{.security.xml}.
This file can be placed in any web directory and it will overwrite
default configuration values.  If the @file{.security.xml} file is not
found in the directory where the requested resource is, then MyServer
will look in the parents directory until the file is found.
If @file{.security.xml} is not present in the virtual host root
directory then the default one which is present in the system
directory will be used.

Usually consider the first valid value found in this order:
@enumerate
@item Local @file{.security.xml}.
@item Parent directories @file{.security.xml}.
@item System vhost directory @file{.security.xml}.
@item MIME type configuration @file{MIMEtypes.xml}.
@item Virtual host configuration.
@item Global server configuration.
@end enumerate

Some values are not configurable in any @file{.security.xml} file and
they are took directly from the Virtual host configuration and in some
cases directly from the global configuration file.

In MyServer there are two different steps involved in the logging
phase: user authentication and validation.

In the first step a permission mask is found given the
username:password pair, no other information are used in this phase.
In the second phase this value is refined using more information.
The two phases are completely separated and it is possible to use
different sources for any of them.

The @file{.security.xml} can be used for both phases and by default it
is.

The anonymous user is matched inside MyServer with the ``Guest''
username and an empty password.

The name for the security file can be changed trought the
@code{security.filename} variable.
The maximum allowed size for a security file can be limited by the
@code{security.max_size} variable, by default there is no limit.
Both @code{security.filename} and @code{security.max_size} can be
defined in the global configuration file or differently for every
virtual host.

@section Security file user authentication
The information used for the first phase of logging is a simple list
of USER elements.  Any permission is configured by an attribute, if
the attribute value is equal to ``YES'' then the permission is granted.

The permissions that MyServer considers are:
@enumerate
@item READ
@item EXECUTE
@item BROWSE
@item WRITE
@item DELETE
@end enumerate

In the following example we enable an anonymous user to access
resources in READ/EXECUTE/BROWSE mode, DELETE and WRITE are both
denied.

@example
<SECURITY>
  <USER name="Guest" password="" READ="YES" EXECUTE="YES" BROWSE="YES"
     DELETE="NO" WRITE="NO"/>
</SECURITY>
@end example

As no other information beside username:password is used, this first
phase is the same for any protocol supported by MyServer.

To improve security it is possible to use in place of the clear-text
password a crypted version of it.  It is done using the
@code{algorithm} variable.  It specifies the function F to apply to
the client specified password before compare it with the
@code{password} value.

@example
<SECURITY>
  <USER name="admin" password="8ee0f7b66d1ab05714573fc556fbd7ff"
               algorithm="md5" READ="YES" EXECUTE="YES"
               BROWSE="YES" DELETE="NO" WRITE="NO"/>
</SECURITY>
@end example

@subsubsection Http Digest
If the HTTP digest authorization scheme is used, it is not possible to
use any password hash but the original clear-text password.  The only
exception to this rule is to specify the A1 part in the Digest
scheme.

It is computed by the function: MD5 (username:realm:password).

@example
  <DEFINE name="http.auth" value="digest" />
  <USER name="user" algorithm="a1" password="c2deada0bcb64f99e65be0d33bb92d54"
        READ="YES" EXECUTE="YES" BROWSE="YES" WRITE="NO"/>
@end example

The realm value used by MyServer is the virtual host name, including
the port number, i.e. @example{localhost:8080}.
The A1 password can be computed using the following shell command, be
sure to use the right user, realm and password values.

@example
  printf "%s:%s:%s" user realm password | md5sum
@end example

@subsection FTP Anonymous user
To allow the @file{.security.xml} re-use, the FTP ``Anonymous'' user
is mapped internally by MyServer to the ``Guest'' user.

@section Validation phase
The second phase allows to define some rules that can overload the
settings specified in the authorization phase.

The default validator used by MyServer is the @file{.security.xml}
file.

@subsection XML Validation file
The XML validation phase reads the tag contained in the order that
they are specified.  It works almost in the same way a programming
language does, but differently the XML validator doesn't allow a loop
structure, this is required to terminate the parsing in a finite
time.

The XML validation is done using four commands: 

@enumerate
@item CONDITION
It defines a block that is evaluated only when the specified condition
is true.
@item DEFINE
It defines a new value for a variable that can be used later by the server.
@item PERMISSION
Redefine the permission found in the authorization phase.
@item RETURN
Immediately return from the validation.
@end enumerate

@subsubsection CONDITION element
The @code{CONDITION} block allows to evaluate a condition and in case
it is satisfied then the inner XML is evaluated too, in case it is not
satisfied then the inner code is not considered.  It works like the
@code{if} statement usually present in any programming language but
offering less syntactical freedom.

Here it is showed a simple use of @code{CONDITION}:
@example
<CONDITION name="auth.user" value="Guest">
...
</CONDITION>
@end example

The inner XML code, omitted for clarity, is evaluated only when the
@code{auth.user} variable is equals to the value "Guest".


It may be necessary to specify the other case, evaluate the inner
block every time the condition is not satisfied.  It is done using the
@code{not} attribute:

@example
<CONDITION name="auth.user" value="Guest" not="yes">
...
</CONDITION>
@end example

In this case, the inner block is evaluated every time the
@code{auth.user} is different than "Guest".

It is possible to match a value against a regular expression, in this
case you will need to declare it explicitly.

@example
<CONDITION name="auth.user" value="admin.*" regex="yes" not="yes">
...
</CONDITION>
@end example


@subsubsection DEFINE element
The @code{DEFINE} block is used to specify a value for a variable that
later can be accessed by the server.
This is the way to specify variables that it is possible to specify in
the security file (not all variables are allowed to be defined here),
overloading the value specified in the virtual host or in the server
global configuration.
The syntax for the @code{DEFINE} command is:
@example
<DEFINE name="http.error.file.404" value="404.html"/>
@end example

In the previous example the HTTP 404 error page was replaced with a
customized HTML page.

As the same configuration file can be used by different contexts, as
a web host or a FTP site, any variable has meaning only in its
original environment, define @code{http.error.file.404} in a FTP site
will not have any effect.

@subsubsection PERMISSION element
The @code{PERMISSION} element has the same syntax used in the first
authorization phase, the only difference is that username and password
are not specified.

@example
<PERMISSION READ="NO" EXECUTE="NO" BROWSE="NO" DELETE="NO" WRITE="NO">
@end example

The previous example denies any access to the resource, replacing any
value found previously.

@subsubsection RETURN element
The @code{RETURN} element allows to exit immediately from the XML flow
without consider any other command specified in the file.

It has an additional attribute @code{value} that must be set to the
value @code{ALLOW} to keep the previous found attribute mask.

To immediately return from the XML file and at the same time deny any
access, without care of the previous found permission mask, you must
do:
@example
<RETURN value="DENY" />
@end example

Differently, to return from the flow keeping the found permission mask
there is need to do like:
@example
<RETURN value="ALLOW" />
@end example

Pay attention, if at the same time you want to change the permissions
then you will need to specify them explicitly by the @code{PERMISSION}
command.
