@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c GNU MyServer
@c
@c Copyright (C) 2002-2010 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c
@c This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
@c it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
@c the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
@c (at your option) any later version.
@c
@c This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
@c but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
@c MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
@c GNU General Public License for more details.
@c
@c You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
@c along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

@section Brief notes on data encryption
The data encryption is used to protect the data that is sent between
the client and the server.  There are two types of algorithm: symmetric
and asymmetric data encryption algorithms.  The difference between the
two types of algorithm is that for the symmetric algorithms the same
key is used both for encryption and decryption.  These algorithms are
not used by servers with a potentially large number of clients because
the data captured can be decrypted by any client that know the key and
because the key needs to be distribute in a safe manner not
distributing it on a large network like Internet.
The asymmetric algorithms work in a different way, the data encrypted
with a key can be decrypted only with the other key and vice-versa.
Anyone know the public key but only the owner knows the private one.
In this way the key owner do not have to distribute the key only to
know clients but he can distributes it to a large scale network.

@section How create SSL certificates with GNU TLS
A certificate is needed to certify your identity through a
CA (Certification Authority).  You can use a certificate without
register it to third party CA, it is called self-signed certificate.
You can find all the necessary tools to create certificates in the
GNU TLS command line tools.  Look here for more information:
@url{http://www.gnu.org/software/gnutls/}.

To generate a private key/self signed certificate couple you will need
to execute these two commands:

@example
certtool --generate-privkey --outfile cert.key
certtool --generate-self-signed --load-privkey cert.key \
         --outfile cert.pem
@end example

@section How use certificates in MyServer
To configure certificates in MyServer you have to put the two files:
@code{cert.key}, @code{cert.pem} in the MyServer certificates
directory.

To configure a HTTPS host that will use the created certificate, add
the following lines in the @file{virtualhosts.xml} file:

@example
<VHOST>
  <NAME>Every connection</NAME>
  <PORT>443</PORT>
  <SSL_PRIVATEKEY>certificates/cert.key</SSL_PRIVATEKEY>
  <SSL_CERTIFICATE>certificates/cert.pem</SSL_CERTIFICATE>
  <PROTOCOL>HTTPS</PROTOCOL>
  <DOCROOT>web</DOCROOT>
  <SYSROOT>system</SYSROOT>
  <ACCESSLOG>logs/myServer.log</ACCESSLOG>
  <WARNINGLOG>logs/myServer.err</WARNINGLOG>
</VHOST>
@end example

Take a look at the @pxref{Virtual hosts} documentation to get more
information about other tags.
